GEN AI 

- [x] GenAI is a type of Artificial Intelligence that creates new content based on what it has learned from existing content.
- [ ] The generative AI process can take training code, labeled data, and unlabeled data of all data types and build a “foundation model”.
- [ ] The foundation model can then generate new content.
- [ ] It can generate text, code, images, audio, video, and more.
- [x] generative language models are pattern-matching systems.
- [x] They learn about patterns based on the data you provide.



Machine learning, is a subfield of AI , that trains a model from input data.
The trained model can make useful predictions .

- [x] machine learning models are unsupervised and supervised ML models.
supervised models,have labels.
1. Labeled data is data that comes with a tag, like a name, a type, or a number.
2. In Supervised Learning, the model learns from past examples to predict future values.
3. The model tries to reduce this error until the predicted and actual values are closer together.

unsupervised models have unlabeled data. 
1. Unlabeled data is data that comes with no tag.
2. Unsupervised problems are all about discovery, about looking at the raw data, and seeing if it naturally falls into groups


Deep learning models typically have many layers of neurons, which allows them to learn more complex patterns than traditional machine learning models.

1. Neural networks can use both labeled and unlabeled data.
2. This is called semi-supervised learning.
3. In semi-supervised learning, a neural network is trained on a small amount of labeled data and a large amount of unlabeled data.
4. The labeled data helps the neural network to learn the basic concepts of the tasks, while the unlabeled data helps the neural network to generalize to new examples.

Deep learning models (or machine learning models in general) can be divided into two types – generative and discriminative.

Discriminative models are typically trained on a dataset of labeled data points,Once a discriminative model is trained, it can be used to predict the label for new data points.
Generative models generate new content.


Language model is an ai model that can predict the next word in the sequence.
LLM’S don’t have any subjective experience , emotions or consciousness that we have , LLMS purely work based on the data they trained.
Inside an LLM U will find a neural network containing a large no.of trillion parameters.

LLM examples are :
1.  GPT 3 or GPT 4  by chatgpt (generative pre )
2. Palm 2 by google
3. Llma by meta
4. Gemini
LLM uses another approach called Reinforcement learning with human feedback.

Emmebbing is a numeric representation of a text in the form of a dats(vector) like words, sentences, images, or any other type of information, such that u can capture the meaning of that text and relationships in a high-dimensional space. 

Vector database allows these embeddings and perform  efficient search on this embeddings.
Benefits: 
1. fast search ,
 2. optiimized storage.
Semantic search means searching for meaning rather than just matching exact words or keywords. Internally it uses the concept of semantic search

Cosine similarity is a metric used to measure the similarity between two vectors by calculating the cosine of the angle between them. Here's a clear explanation:
Basic Definition:
* Measures similarity between two non-zero vectors
* Result ranges from -1 to 1
    * 1 means vectors are identical
    * 0 means vectors are perpendicular (completely different)
    * -1 means vectors are opposite
Formula:
    
cos(θ) = (A·B)/(||A||×||B||)

Where:
- A·B is the dot product of vectors
- ||A|| and ||B|| are vector magnitudes

Locality Sensitive Hashing (LSH) is a technique that hashes similar items to the same "bucket" with high probability, allowing for fast approximate nearest neighbor search in large-scale datasets. 
This hashing function creating buckets of similar embeddings, within that buckets we can perform the individual search

RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) is a technique that enhances AI language models by combining their built-in knowledge with real-time information retrieved from an external knowledge base before generating responses.
* Rag will create the vector database related to our provided database, which convert the text to vectors.
Key components:
1. Retrieval: Finding relevant information from a database
2. Augmentation: Adding this information to the prompt
3. Generation: Creating the response using both the model's knowledge and retrieved data
Process :
1. A query from the user and then it will go the database and retrieve the information 
2. And this information is adding to the promo and giving it to the LLM
3. The LLM will summarise the output.
Purpose: To make AI responses more accurate, up-to-date, and verifiable by grounding them in specific source documents.
Ex: take a question from the user and LLM will refer the database, and the LLM pull the answer from the database.

TOOLS OF GEN AI:

1. Lang chain is a python framework used to builds the gen ai applications using LLMS
2. GPT 4 from the chatgpt 
3. LLAMA 2 , 
4. DALL-E , 
5. Mistral 
6. Stable Diffusion. 
7. Hugging face bloom

These can be commercial or open source models and 
cloud services like Azure open ai service , Amazon bedrock.
